feat: update the parsing lesson of the JS2 course to be about JavaScript (#1760)
apify/apify-docs: sources/academy/webscraping/scraping_basics_javascript2/05_parsing_html.md

## Processing HTML

After downloading, the entire HTML is available in our program as a string. We can print it to the screen or save it to a file, but not much more. However, since it's a string, could we use [string operations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String#instance_methods) or [regular expressions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions) to count the products?

While somewhat possible, such an approach is tedious, fragile, and unreliable. To work with HTML, we need a robust tool dedicated to the task: an _HTML parser_. It takes a text with HTML markup and turns it into a tree of JavaScript objects.

:::info Why regex can't parse HTML

> While [Bobince's infamous StackOverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1732454/325365) is funny, it doesn't go much into explaining. In formal language theory, HTML's hierarchical and nested structure makes it a [context-free language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_language). Regular expressions match patterns in [regular languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_language), which are much simpler. This difference makes it hard for a regex to handle HTML's nested tags. HTML's complex syntax rules and various edge cases also add to the difficulty.

Reviewer: Can we break up this note visually?

Author: There is a lot of links so it might look worse in the diff than rendered, but I'll try to figure out something.
<img width="771" height="283" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-25 at 16 04 43" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e5f77b22-4502-42b4-9a5f-5e936441028f" />

Author: my take
<img width="767" height="380" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-25 at 16 20 08" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b7ea20a9-3a4b-41bd-a568-37fb62c37bd3" />

:::

We'll choose [Cheerio](https://cheerio.js.org/) as our parser, as it's a popular library which can process even non-standard, broken markup. This is useful for scraping, because real-world websites often contain all sorts of errors and discrepancies. In the project directory, we'll run the following to install the Cheerio package:

> ```text

Reviewer: wouldn't ```bash make more sense? (I guess that is just a nit )

Author: I use ```text consistently throughout both of the courses, because setting it as bash oftentimes than not highlights words which I don't need colored, especially in the output of the commands. Usually, there's like one line of bash and the rest is the output, so I opted for setting it as text, because the result is visually less confusing, imho.

Author: I think ```bash would be great for actual bash scripts, bash functions, etc.

Scanning through [usage examples](https://cheerio.js.org/docs/basics/selecting) will help us to figure out code for counting the product cards:

```js
import * as cheerio from 'cheerio';

const url = "https://warehouse-theme-metal.myshopify.com/collections/sales";
const response = await fetch(url);

if (response.ok) {
  const html = await response.text();
  const $ = cheerio.load(html);
  // highlight-next-line
  console.log($(".product-item").length);
} else {
  throw new Error(`HTTP ${response.status}`);
}
```

In CSS, `.product-item` selects all elements whose `class` attribute contains value `product-item`. We call `$()` with the selector and get back matching elements. Cheerio handles all the complexity of understanding the HTML markup for us. Then we use `.length` to count how many items there is in the selection.

```text
$ node index.js
24
```

That's it! We've managed to download a product listing, parse its HTML, and count how many products it contains. In the next lesson, we'll be looking for a way to extract detailed information about individual products.

> :::info Cheerio and jQuery
> 
> The Cheerio documentation frequently mentions something called jQuery. In the medieval days of the internet, when so-called Internet Explorers roamed the untamed plains of simple websites, developers created the first JavaScript frameworks to improve their crude tools and overcome the wild inconsistencies between browsers. Imagine a time when things like `document.querySelectorAll()` didn't even exist. jQuery was the most popular of these frameworks, granting great power to those who knew how to wield it.
> 
> Cheerio was deliberately designed to mimic jQuery's interface. At the time, nearly everyone was familiar with it, and it felt like the most natural way to walk through HTML elements. jQuery was used in the browser, Cheerio in Node.js. But as time passed, jQuery gradually faded from relevance. In a twist of history, we now learn its syntax only to use Cheerio.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: That is one big admonition... can we try to be more concise here? Maybe something like

```suggestion
:::info Cheerio and jQuery

The Cheerio documentation frequently mentions jQuery. Back when browsers were wildly inconsistent and basic DOM methods like document.querySelectorAll() didn't exist, jQuery was the most popular JavaScript framework for web development. It provided a consistent API that worked across all browsers.

Cheerio was designed to mimic jQuery's interface because nearly every developer knew jQuery at the time. jQuery worked in browsers, Cheerio in Node.js. While jQuery has largely faded from modern web development, we now learn its syntax specifically to use Cheerio for server-side HTML manipulation.

:::
```
